= Emacs-Lisp by tarao

== install.rb

A simple installer for site-elisp.

=== Usage

Assume that you have site-lisp/ and a working copy of
this repository named repos/tarao/ in the same directory. Then,
following commands automatically pull repositories under repos/ and
install *.el from those repositories:

  cd repos
  ln -s tarao/install.rb
  ./install.rb

== default-file-coding-system.el

Set default-file-coding-system according to the regular expressions of
file names.

=== Example

  (require 'default-file-coding-systems)
  (setq default-file-coding-system-alist
        (append
         '(("\\.tex$" . euc-jp-unix)
           ("\\.sty$" . euc-jp-unix)
           ("\\.bib$" . euc-jp-unix))
         default-file-coding-system-alist))

== end-mark.el

Show mark at the end of buffer.

=== Example

  (require 'end-mark)
  (global-end-mark-mode)

== hexl-viper-patch.el

Patch for using both hexl-mode and viper-mode.

=== Usage

  (require 'hexl-viper-patch)

== immortal-buffer.el

Make buffer immortal. An immortal buffer will be just cleared when you
kill the buffer. And it will be respawned when you save it.

=== Example

  (require 'immortal-buffer)
  (make-buffer-immortal "*scratch*")

== linum+.el

Provide relative-linum-mode which displays relative line numbers.

=== Usage

  (require 'linum+)

And try M-x relative-linum-mode.

=== Requirement

linum.el from http://stud4.tuwien.ac.at/~e0225855/linum/linum.html

== shell-command+.el

Provide feature of a default command from the top of the history in
shell-command and shell-command-on-region.

=== Usage

  (require 'shell-command+)

And try M-x shell-command+ or M-x shell-command-on-region+.
